.TH ELEKTROID-CLI "1" "Jan 2023"

.SH NAME
elektroid-cli \- Sample and MIDI device manager (CLI)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B elektroid-cli
.RI [ options ]
.RI command

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B elektroid-cli
is part of Elektroid, a sample and MIDI device manager. See man elektroid for the GUI application.
.PP
With Elektroid you can easily upload and download audio files and manage different types of data on different MIDI devices, such as presets, projects or tunings. It can also be used to send and receive SysEx MIDI files.

.SH SUPPORTED DEVICES
.IP \[bu] 2
Arturia MicroBrute
.IP \[bu]
Arturia MicroFreak
.IP \[bu]
Casio CZ-101
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Analog Four MKI, MKII and Keys
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Analog Heat MKI, MKII and +FX
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Analog Rytm MKI and MKII
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Digitakt I and II
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Digitone I and II and Digitone Keys
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Model:Cycles
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Model:Samples
.IP \[bu]
Elektron Syntakt
.IP \[bu]
Eventide ModFactor, PitchFactor, TimeFactor, Space and H9
.IP \[bu]
KORG padKONTROL
.IP \[bu]
KORG Volca Sample
.IP \[bu]
Moog Little Phatty and Slim Phatty
.IP \[bu]
Novation Summit and Peak
.IP \[bu]
Samplers implementing MIDI SDS

.SH DEVICE COMMANDS
Device commands operate over the device itself. For the commands that operate over the different types of data a device provides see the filesystem commands section.
.TP
[ \fBld\fR | \fBlist-devices\fR ]
List compatible devices
.TP
[ \fBdf\fR | \fBinfo-storage\fR ] device_number
Show size and use of +Drive and RAM where available
.TP
\fBinfo\fR device_number
Show device info
.TP
\fBsend\fR file device_number
Send MIDI data file to device
.TP
\fBreceive\fR device_number file
Receive MIDI data file from device
.TP
\fBupgrade\fR firmware device_number
Upgrade the device
.TP
\fBplay\fR file
Play audio file
.TP
\fBrecord\fR file
Record into file

.SH FILESYSTEM COMMANDS
Different filesystem operations are implemented on different connectors so a command has one of the following forms:
.IP \[bu] 2
connector, colon (':'), filesystem name, colon (':'), and the operation itself. This is the preferred way.
.IP \[bu]
connector, hyphen ('-'), filesystem name, hyphen ('-'), and the operation itself. This should be avoided.
.TP
Provided paths must always be prepended with the device id and a colon (':'), e.g. 0:/samples. Paths pointing to a data, sound or project file use the index of a file instead of its name.
.TP
These are the available operations.
.TP
[ \fBls\fR | \fBlist\fR ] device_number:path_to_directory
List directory contents
.TP
\fBmkdir\fR device_number:path_to_directory
Create a directory and its parent directories as needed
.TP
[ \fBrmdir\fR | \fBrm\fR ] device_number:path_to_directory
Delete a directory recursively
.TP
[ \fBul\fR | \fBupload\fR ] file device_number:path_to_file_or_directory
Upload a file. If the path does not exist it will be created.
.TP
[ \fBdl\fR | \fBdownload\fR | \fBrdownload\fR | \fBrdl\fR | \fBbackup\fR ] device_number:path_to_file_or_directory [ destination ]
Download a file into the destination directory or the current directory if not provided.
.TP
\fBmv\fR device_number:path_to_file_or_directory device_number:path_to_file_or_directory
Move a file. If the destination path does not exist, it will be created.
.TP
\fBrm\fR device_number:path_to_file
Delete a file
.TP
\fBcl\fR device_number:path_to_file
Clear file
.TP
\fBcp\fR device_number:path_to_file device_number:path_to_file
Copy a file
.TP
\fBsw\fR device_number:path_to_file device_number:path_to_file
Swap files

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-v\fR give verbose output. Use it more than once for more verbosity.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
\fBelektroid-cli ld\fR
lists the available devices.
.TP
\fBelektroid-cli info 0\fR
shows information about the device, including the connector and the available filesystems.
.TP
\fBelektroid-cli elektron:sample:ul square.wav 0:/waveforms\fR
uploads a sample to an Elektron device.
.TP
\fBelektroid-cli sds:mono-16b:dl 0:/1\fR
downloads a mono 16 bits sample from an SDS sampler.
.TP
\fBelektroid-cli summit:single:ls 0:/A\fR
lists Novation Summit single patches in bank A.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
The GitHub page provides some examples: <https://dagargo.github.io/elektroid/>

.SH "AUTHOR"
elektroid-cli was written by David García Goñi <dagargo@gmail.com>.

.PP
This manual page was written by Dennis Braun <snd@debian.org>
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
